# SHARP: SHApe Recovery from Partial textured 3D scans

Workshop and challenge in conjunction with
[ECCV 2020](https://eccv2020.eu/workshops/).

[SHARP 2020 website](https://cvi2.uni.lu/sharp2020/)

Organised by [CVI²](https://cvi2.uni.lu) & [Artec3D](https://artec-europe.com).

## Overview

The goal of the competition is to recover a reference textured scan `Y` from a
partial version of it `X`.
This is a *completion task* of 3D shape and texture.

The data consists in pairs `(X, Y)` generated from two datasets of 3D textured
scans:

1. 3DBodyTex-2: a dataset of 3D human scans (extending
   [3DBodyTex](https://cvi2.uni.lu/datasets/)).
2. 3DObjectTex: a dataset of 3D scans of generic objects.

There are two challenges, one per dataset.

The *ground-truth shapes*, `Y`, are the raw scans, or the fitted body models in
a variant of the challenge on human scans.

The *partial scans*, `X`, are generated synthetically from the ground-truth
shapes, `Y`.
The idea is to simulate the partial acquisition produced by a 3D scanner, e.g.
a hand-held scanner.

For *training*, only the ground-truth shapes, `Y`, are provided.
The partial scans, `X`, must be generated by the participants.
Some [example routines](sharp/preprocess.py) are provided.
Custom routines may be used but must be reported.

For *evaluation*, a set of partial shapes, `X`, will be shared with the
participants.
The corresponding ground-truth shapes, `Y`, are kept secret until the end of
the competition.

The submissions are evaluated quantitatively by computing the point-to-surface
or surface-to-surface distance from `Y` to `X`.

Detailed instructions:

- [Challenge 1: Recovery of Human Body Scans](doc/challenge_1.md)
  - [Track 1: Recovery of large regions](doc/challenge_1_track_1.md)
  - [Track 2: Recovery of fine details](doc/challenge_1_track_1.md)
- [Challenge 2: Recovery of Generic Object Scans](doc/challenge_2.md)
- [Generation of partial data](doc/partial_data.md)
- [Evaluation and metrics]()
- [Data formats](doc/formats.md)
