# Challenge 1 - Track 1: Recovery of Large Regions In Human Scans

Given a partial human body scan, `X`, the goal is to recover the complete scan,
`Y`.

## Training data

Provided:

1. A set of complete scans, `Y`.
2. Additional metadata: The 3D positions of detected body landmarks.

Not provided:

1. The partial scans, `X`. They must be generated by the participants.

Te body landmarks are used to generate the partial data.
They can be freely exploited during training but they are not provided for the
final evaluation.

The data files are arranged in the following directory structure:

```
  train/
    <scan_name>/
      <scan_name>_normalized.npz
      landmarks3d.txt
    .../
  test/
    <scan_name>/
      <scan_name>_normalized.npz
      landmarks3d.txt
    .../
```

For each scan, there is one subdirectory with a unique `<scan_name>`,
e.g. `170410-007-f-1moq-b682-low-res-result`.
The files are:

* `<scan_name>_normalized.npz`:
  The ground-truth raw scan, `Y`, as a textured mesh.
* `landmarks3d.txt`: 3D positions of detected body landmarks.

See [formats](formats.md) for the mesh and landmark data formats.

## Evaluation data

Provided:

1. A set of partial scans, `X`.

Not provided:

1. The ground-truth scans, `Y`.
   (They will be released after the competition.)
2. Additional metadata.

The data files are arranged in the following directory structure:

```
  eval/
    <scan_name>/
      <scan_name>_partial.npz
    .../
```

## Submission format

The predicted complete mesh, `Y'`, should be in `.obj` or `.npz` (see
[formats](formats.md)).

The mesh colour information should be either:

1. a single texture atlas,
2. or RGB colour stored as vertex attributes.

A mixture of vertex colour attribute and texture mapping is not allowed.

The mesh geometry may be different than the input, `X`.

The submission must be a `.zip` archive that unfolds in this directory
structure:

```
  eval/
    <scan_name>/
      completed.(npz|obj)
    .../
```

where `<scan_name>` correponds to the name of the input scans.



